Steps_to_Urbit_on_Raspberry_Pi.md, before:

↰ [Return to Index](index.md)

# Steps to Urbit on Raspberry Pi

You need a Raspberry Pi capable of running in AArch64 (aka 64-bit) mode, which means a RPi 3 or 4 (maybe a later model RPi 2 with the upgraded BCM2837 chip).

Be aware that running Urbit on a microSD card may, depending on the speed of your card and the speed of the reader in your Raspberry Pi, be a slow and frustrating experience. This is especially true on RPi models before the Raspberry Pi 4, which will need to have the [reader interface overclocked](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2016/how-overclock-microsd-card-reader-on-raspberry-pi-3) in order to run Urbit at an acceptable speed.

It's better to avoid the microSD card and just run your Pi from a USB attached SSD.

It's best to avoid buying a Raspberry Pi entirely, and to instead [purchase an alternative single-board computer](Buying_Guide.md) with sane storage options built into the board.

### OS Version

This guide assumes you're running the latest ([Buster](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/buster-the-new-version-of-raspbian/)) 32-bit (armv7l) version of the default Raspberry Pi distro "Raspberry Pi OS" (previously called Raspbian) and that you've run `sudo apt update` and `sudo apt full-upgrade` recently.

### Step One: Kernel

You need to add `arm_64bit=1` to `/boot/config.txt`.

You can do this by running `echo 'arm_64bit=1' | sudo tee -a /boot/config.txt`

*Make sure to not leave out the `-a` after `tee` or your /boot/config.txt file will consist of nothing but arm_64bit=1*

Now reboot and your Pi will be running a 64-bit kernel.

### Alternate Step Two: Download Static Binaries

It's now possible to download already compiled static binaries for AArch64. See [this post](AArch64_Urbit_Static_Binaries.md) for further details. If you take this route, the following steps are unnecessary.

### Step Two: Nix

`sudo mkdir /nix && sudo chown pi.pi /nix`

`curl -L https://nixos.org/nix/install | sh`

Then restart your shell session or run `. /home/pi/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/nix.sh` so your environment variables are set for nix.

### Step Three: Git

`sudo apt-get install git-lfs`

`git clone https://github.com/botter-nidnul/urbit --branch urbit-v0.10.8-aarch64`

`cd urbit`

### Step Four: Make

`make build && make install`

This step will take a while as nix needs to download and build urbit's dependencies.

### Step Five: Confirm Urbit Install

If step four completed successfully, `which urbit` should return `/home/pi/.nix-profile/bin/urbit`.

You no longer need the urbit directory git cloned, and I suggest you remove it to avoid confusion.

`cd`

`rm -rf urbit`

### Step Six: Boot Your Planet

Run urbit with `urbit some-planet` (note there's no `./` in front of the urbit command like when you use downloaded release binaries)

If your Pi doesn't have enough ram to run urbit, [create a swap file](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/1605).

### The Group

Join the group `~dasfeb/smol-computers` if you have questions or issues.

↰ [Return to Index](index.md)

Commit message:

make twitter cards work
Update _config.yml
Add files via upload
Update _config.yml
Update _config.yml
Update _config.yml
Delete logo.jpg
Add files via upload
Update _config.yml
Update _config.yml
Update _config.yml
Update _config.yml
Update AArch64_Urbit_Static_Binaries.md
Update AArch64_Urbit_Static_Binaries.md
Update _config.yml
Update Buying_Guide.md
Update Simple_HTTPS.md
Update AArch64_Urbit_Static_Binaries.md
Update Steps_to_Urbit_on_Raspberry_Pi.md
Update Urbit_AArch64_APT_Repository.md
Update Urbit_on_Android_Termux.md
Update Steps_to_Urbit_on_Raspberry_Pi.md

Steps_to_Urbit_on_Raspberry_Pi.md, after:

---
title: Steps to Urbit on Raspberry Pi
description: Guide for running (and optionally building) Urbit on the Raspberry Pi
---

↰ [Return to Index](index.md)

# Steps to Urbit on Raspberry Pi

You need a Raspberry Pi capable of running in AArch64 (aka 64-bit) mode, which means a RPi 3 or 4 (maybe a later model RPi 2 with the upgraded BCM2837 chip).

Be aware that running Urbit on a microSD card may, depending on the speed of your card and the speed of the reader in your Raspberry Pi, be a slow and frustrating experience. This is especially true on RPi models before the Raspberry Pi 4, which will need to have the [reader interface overclocked](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2016/how-overclock-microsd-card-reader-on-raspberry-pi-3) in order to run Urbit at an acceptable speed.

It's better to avoid the microSD card and just run your Pi from a USB attached SSD.

It's best to avoid buying a Raspberry Pi entirely, and to instead [purchase an alternative single-board computer](Buying_Guide.md) with sane storage options built into the board.

### OS Version

This guide assumes you're running the latest ([Buster](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/buster-the-new-version-of-raspbian/)) 32-bit (armv7l) version of the default Raspberry Pi distro "Raspberry Pi OS" (previously called Raspbian) and that you've run `sudo apt update` and `sudo apt full-upgrade` recently.

### Step One: Kernel

You need to add `arm_64bit=1` to `/boot/config.txt`.

You can do this by running `echo 'arm_64bit=1' | sudo tee -a /boot/config.txt`

*Make sure to not leave out the `-a` after `tee` or your /boot/config.txt file will consist of nothing but arm_64bit=1*

Now reboot and your Pi will be running a 64-bit kernel.

### Alternate Step Two: Download Static Binaries

It's now possible to download already compiled static binaries for AArch64. See [this post](AArch64_Urbit_Static_Binaries.md) for further details. If you take this route, the following steps are unnecessary.

### Step Two: Nix

`sudo mkdir /nix && sudo chown pi.pi /nix`

`curl -L https://nixos.org/nix/install | sh`

Then restart your shell session or run `. /home/pi/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/nix.sh` so your environment variables are set for nix.

### Step Three: Git

`sudo apt-get install git-lfs`

`git clone https://github.com/botter-nidnul/urbit --branch urbit-v0.10.8-aarch64`

`cd urbit`

### Step Four: Make

`make build && make install`

This step will take a while as nix needs to download and build urbit's dependencies.

### Step Five: Confirm Urbit Install

If step four completed successfully, `which urbit` should return `/home/pi/.nix-profile/bin/urbit`.

You no longer need the urbit directory git cloned, and I suggest you remove it to avoid confusion.

`cd`

`rm -rf urbit`

### Step Six: Boot Your Planet

Run urbit with `urbit some-planet` (note there's no `./` in front of the urbit command like when you use downloaded release binaries)

If your Pi doesn't have enough ram to run urbit, [create a swap file](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/1605).

### The Group

Join the group `~dasfeb/smol-computers` if you have questions or issues.

↰ [Return to Index](index.md)
